Update Lisk Service overview page (#1608)
LiskHQ/lisk-service: docs/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

:url_protocol:  {lisk-docs}understand-blockchain/lisk-protocol/index.adoc
:url_setup:  setup/docker.adoc

{url_github_lisk_service}[Lisk Service^] is a web application middleware that allows interaction with various blockchain networks based on the xref:{url_protocol}[Lisk] protocol.

The main focus of Lisk Service is to provide data to the UI clients such as {url_lisk_wallet}[Lisk Desktop] and {url_lisk_wallet}[Lisk Mobile].
Lisk Service makes it possible to access all blockchain live data in a similar way to the regular Lisk SDK API, and in addition provides users with much more detailed in-depth information and endpoints, such as geolocation and various statistics regarding network usage.

The project implementation is based on <<microservices>>.
The technical stack is designed to deliver several microservices, and each of them provides one particular functionality.
The data is served in JSON format and exposed by a xref:{url_api_http}[public RESTful API], or a WebSocket-based RPC API.
//TODO: Add in a link for the Websocket RPC API when the docs are updated.

== Architecture

image::architecture.png[Architecture][,500 ,align="center"]

=== Available Services

> Lisk Service consists of various microservices which have been further expanded, and possess the ability to run independently of each other.

Author: Sure, I have rephrased and expanded on it. 👍

:url_dynamic_fee: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0013.md
:url_http_api: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service/blob/v0.7.0-beta.0/docs/api/version3.md
:url_websocket: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service/blob/v0.7.0-beta.0/docs/api/version3.md
:url_subapi: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service/blob/v0.7.0-beta.0/docs/api/websocket_subscribe_api.md
:url_postman: https://www.postman.com/
:url_curl: https://curl.se/
:url_httpie: https://httpie.io/
:url_socket: https://socket.io/
:url_nodejs: https://github.com/nodejs/release#release-schedule
:url_mysql: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/relnotes/mysql/8.0/en/
:url_docker: https://www.docker.com/
:url_docker_compose: https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/
:url_gnu_make: https://www.gnu.org/software/make/
:url_gnu_tar: https://www.gnu.org/software/tar/
:url_ubuntu18: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service/blob/v0.7.0-beta.0/docs/prerequisites_docker_ubuntu.md
:url_ubuntu20: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service/blob/v0.7.0-beta.0/docs/prerequisites_docker_ubuntu.md
:url_debian: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service/blob/v0.7.0-beta.0/docs/prerequisites_docker_debian.md

> :url_macos: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-service/blob/v0.7.0-beta.0/docs/prerequisites_docker_macos.md

Author: Good point.. Now done and I have a left a TODO: note to update them when production is released.

:url_api_subscribe:  {lisk-docs}api/lisk-service-pubsub.adoc
:url_config:  configuration/docker.adoc
:url_protocol:  {lisk-docs}understand-blockchain/lisk-protocol/index.adoc
:url_setup:  setup/docker.adoc

{url_github_lisk_service}[Lisk Service^] is a web application middleware that allows interaction with various blockchain networks based on the xref:{url_protocol}[Lisk] protocol.

The main focus of Lisk Service is to provide data to the UI clients such as {url_lisk_wallet}[Lisk Desktop] and {url_lisk_wallet}[Lisk Mobile].
Lisk Service makes it possible to access all blockchain live data in a similar way to the regular Lisk SDK API, and in addition provides users with much more detailed in-depth information and endpoints, such as geolocation and various statistics regarding network usage.

The project implementation is based on <<microservices>>.
The technical stack is designed to deliver several microservices, and each of them provides one particular functionality.
The data is served in JSON format and exposed by a xref:{url_api_http}[public RESTful API], or a WebSocket-based RPC API.
//TODO: Add in a link for the Websocket RPC API when the docs are updated.

== Architecture

> image::architecture.png[Architecture]

Author: As discussed off line..Now all done 👍

The following diagram below depicts an overview of the microservice architecture.
The inter-microservice communications are enabled with a message broker.
This is generally an instance of {url_redis}[Redis^] or {url_nats}[NATS^].

=== Microservices Architecture Overview

image::mservice_architecture.png[]

== API documentation
The Gateway service provides the following APIs, which all users of Lisk Service can access and use.

[cols="1,3", options="header"]
.The APIs
|===
|API |Description

|{url_http_api}[HTTP API^]
| HTTP API is the public RESTful API that provides blockchain data in standardized JSON format.

|{url_websocket_api}[WebSocket JSON-RPC API^]
|The WebSocket-based JSON-RPC API provides blockchain data in standardized JSON format.
The API uses the Socket.IO library and is compatible with JSON-RPC 2.0 standards.

|{url_subscribe_api}[Subscribe API^]
|The Subscribe API is an event-driven API.
It uses a two-way streaming connection, which can notify the client about new data instantly as it arrives.
It is responsible for updating users regarding changes in the blockchain network and markets.
|===

> == Installation

Author: Good point, I have now commented it out, and left a remark as a reminder that we may use this content in the new docker setup guide 👍

The default port for REST API requests and Socket.IO-based communication is `9901`.
The API is accessible through the URL `http://localhost:9901` when running locally.
The REST API is accessible via HTTP clients such as {url_postman}[Postman^], {url_curl}[cURL^] and {url_curl}[HTTPie^].

> With regard to WebSocket-based APIs, these can be used via the {url_socket}[Socket.IO^] library which is available for many programming languages and frameworks,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WebSocket-based APIs can be accessed with the help of the {url_socket}[Socket.IO^] library that is available for many programming languages and frameworks.
```

* {url_gnu_make}[GNU Make] and {url_gnu_tar}[GNU Tar]

In order to obtain comprehensive guidance on installing the necessary dependencies for the different operating systems, adhere to the relevant instructions that pertain to your specific operating system as shown below:

[tabs]
=====
Linux::
+
--
* {url_ubuntu18}[Ubuntu 18.04 LTS Bionic Beaver^]
* {url_ubuntu20}[Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Focal Fossa^]
* {url_debian}[Debian 10 Buster^]
--
MacOS::
+
--
* {url_macos}[MacOS 10.15 Catalina^]
--
=====

Retrieve the latest release from the {url_repo}[official repository^].

Unpack the source code archive by executing the following commands listed below:

[source,bash]
----
tar -xf lisk-service-x.y.z.tar.gz
cd lisk-service
----

The above commands retrieve the entire source code, however, this does not cover building a custom version of Lisk Service.
For more information refer to this document: {url_service-source}[Building Lisk Service from source^].

==== Docker image build

Building a Docker image is optional.
However, if you wish to build the local version of Lisk Service execute the following command below:

[source,bash]
----
make build
----

> Please note that this step is only necessary if you wish to build a custom or pre-release version of Lisk Service that does not have a pre-built Docker image published on the Docker Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note, this step is only necessary if you wish to build a custom or pre-release version of Lisk Service that does not have a pre-built Docker image published on the Docker Hub.
```

If you are unsure about any local builds, use the `make clean` command to remove all locally built docker images.

=== Configuration

The default configuration is sufficient to run Lisk Service against the local node.

Before running the application copy the default docker-compose environment file as shown in the command below:

[source,bash]
----
cp docker/example.env .env
----

Set the required environment variables as shown in the command below:

[source,bash]
----
$EDITOR .env
----

The example snippet below assumes that the Lisk Core (or any Lisk protocol-compliant blockchain application), node is running on the host machine and not inside of a Docker container.

[source,bash]
----
## Required
# The local Lisk Core node WebSocket API port
export LISK_APP_WS="ws://host.docker.internal:7667"
----

When running a node inside of a Docker container, the variable needs to refer to the container as shown below:
`LISK_APP_WS="ws://<your_docker_container>:7667"`.

For more information, the configuration options are described here in the {url_service_config}[Lisk Service Configuration Reference^], which may also be helpful with regard to PM2-based installations.

[[usage]]

> == APIs & Usage

Author: Yes good point, I have restructured it somewhat, and would like to keep the commented out sections pertaining to the irrelevant text/snippets for the time being, as we may be able to use some of this content in the updated guides, if you agree. :pray:

// [source,bash]
// ----
// cp docker/example.env .env
// ----

// Set the required environment variables as shown in the command below:

// [source,bash]
// ----
// $EDITOR .env
// ----

// The example snippet below assumes that the Lisk Core (or any Lisk protocol-compliant blockchain application), node is running on the host machine and not inside of a Docker container.

// [source,bash]
// ----
// ## Required
// # The local Lisk Core node WebSocket API port
// export LISK_APP_WS="ws://host.docker.internal:7667"
// ----

// When running a node inside of a Docker container, the variable needs to refer to the container as shown below:
// `LISK_APP_WS="ws://<your_docker_container>:7667"`.

// For more information, the configuration options are described here in the {url_service_config}[Lisk Service Configuration Reference^], which may also be helpful with regard to PM2-based installations.

// [[usage]]
// == APIs & Usage

Once Lisk Service is xref:{url_setup}[set up], xref:{url_config}[configured], and started, it is possible to retrieve data from the blockchain network.

Lisk Service provides the data through several alternative APIs:

=== The HTTP API

> The xref:{url_api_http}[HTTP API] provides various additional endpoints as compared to the HTTP API of a normal Lisk node.

Author: Agreed, although imho it should really be more 'extensive information' than 'exhaustive information' 👍

|*Template*
|All Lisk Service services are derived from the Template service, which is an abstract microservice.
It allows all services to share a similar interface and design pattern.
The objective of the Template service is to reduce code duplication and increase consistency between each service, hence simplifying code maintenance and testing.
|===

==== Remarks

* Lisk Service by default attempts to connect to a local node via WebSocket on port `7887` or IPC on `~/.lisk/lisk-core` by default.
* The default installation method is based on Docker.
* Please note that certain token conversion rates in the Market service require their API keys.
* For the events information to be always available in the API, please set the `system.keepEventsForHeights: -1` in the Lisk application node config.

The following diagram below depicts an overview of the microservice architecture.
The inter-microservice communications are enabled with a message broker.
This is generally an instance of {url_redis}[Redis^] or {url_nats}[NATS^].

=== Microservices Architecture Overview

image::mservice_architecture.png[]

[[usage]]

> == APIs and Usage

Reviewer 2: The content in the table and the sections below is a little bit redundant. Please merge it all into the table, or, if you think its better, remove the table and just keep the sections

> == APIs and Usage

Author: OK, good point.  I have removed the table, and slightly amplified the descriptions of the APIs. 👍

//       "nextAllocatedTime": 1683716840,
//       "status": "active"
//     },
//     ...
//     {
//       "address": "lskx7rscmxc3k9yokbqpxspjj92zz6fue84e2xw92",
//      "name": "genesis_1",
//       "publicKey": "44e2b746594f74272d15b6f7d18dffbf83c749bbf1babc5f1d314bdbd08f8215",
//       "nextAllocatedTime": 1683716850,
//       "status": "active"
//     },
//   ],
//   "meta": {
//     "count": 10,
//     "offset": 0,
//     "total": 103
//   }
// }
// ----

=== The WebSocket JSON-RPC API

// The JSON-RPC API provides blockchain data in standardized JSON format over a WebSocket connection.
// The API uses the `Socket.IO` library and is compatible with JSON-RPC 2.0 standard.

The {url_websocket_api}[WebSocket JSON-RPC API^] provides blockchain data in standardized JSON format.
The API uses the Socket.IO library and is compatible with JSON-RPC 2.0 standards.
This enables efficient and seamless integration within the Lisk blockchain network, coupled with offering a more responsive, and efficient alternative to the traditional HTTP based APIs.

The xref:{url_api_rpc}[RPC-API] reference provides an overview of all available RPC requests.

> Almost every HTTP endpoint exposes a corresponding RPC endpoint to query over WS/WebSocket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Almost every HTTP endpoint exposes a corresponding JSON-RPC endpoint to query over WebSocket.
```

* https://testnet-service.lisk.com/api/v3/transactions
====

// ==== Example: Request data with curl

// .Example request: Obtain a list of the block generators in the current round.
// [source,bash]
// ----
// curl -X GET "http://localhost:9901/api/v3/generators" -H  "accept: application/json"
// ----

// .Example response
// [source,json]
// ----
// {
//   "data": [
//     {
//       "address": "lsk2jjg9ob4qh7jokpdbf7hjgqftkaq4b2925f422",
//       "name": "genesis_3",
//       "publicKey": "d16699888782b26c3e4cffd2a94910ec11d59476b2358adc442e010650afe4a9",
//       "nextAllocatedTime": 1683716840,
//       "status": "active"
//     },
//     ...
//     {
//       "address": "lskx7rscmxc3k9yokbqpxspjj92zz6fue84e2xw92",
//      "name": "genesis_1",
//       "publicKey": "44e2b746594f74272d15b6f7d18dffbf83c749bbf1babc5f1d314bdbd08f8215",
//       "nextAllocatedTime": 1683716850,
//       "status": "active"
//     },
//   ],
//   "meta": {
//     "count": 10,
//     "offset": 0,
//     "total": 103
//   }
// }
// ----

=== The WebSocket JSON-RPC API

// The JSON-RPC API provides blockchain data in standardized JSON format over a WebSocket connection.

> // The API uses the `socket.io` library and is compatible with JSON-RPC 2.0 standard.

Reviewer: Since this information is redundant, already specified in Table 2. Should we remove these lines?

Author: Yes, they are already commented out 👍

> With regard to the WebSocket JSON-RPC API, as briefly described above in Table 2, this enables efficient and seamless integration within the Lisk blockchain network, coupled with offering a more responsive, and efficient alternative to the traditional HTTP based APIs.
> The xref:{url_api_rpc}[RPC-API] reference provides an overview of all available RPC requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With regard to the WebSocket JSON-RPC API, as briefly described above in Table 2, this enables efficient and seamless integration within the Lisk blockchain network, coupled with offering a more responsive, and efficient alternative to the traditional HTTP based APIs.
The xref:{url_api_rpc}[RPC-API] reference provides an overview of all available RPC requests. Almost every HTTP endpoint exposes a corresponding RPC endpoint to query over WS/WebSocket. The only exception is the `/export/download` endpoint.
```

// [source,json]
// ----
// {
//   "data": [
//     {
//       "address": "lsk2jjg9ob4qh7jokpdbf7hjgqftkaq4b2925f422",
//       "name": "genesis_3",
//       "publicKey": "d16699888782b26c3e4cffd2a94910ec11d59476b2358adc442e010650afe4a9",
//       "nextAllocatedTime": 1683716840,
//       "status": "active"
//     },
//     ...
//     {
//       "address": "lskx7rscmxc3k9yokbqpxspjj92zz6fue84e2xw92",
//      "name": "genesis_1",
//       "publicKey": "44e2b746594f74272d15b6f7d18dffbf83c749bbf1babc5f1d314bdbd08f8215",
//       "nextAllocatedTime": 1683716850,
//       "status": "active"
//     },
//   ],
//   "meta": {
//     "count": 10,
//     "offset": 0,
//     "total": 103
//   }
// }
// ----

=== The WebSocket JSON-RPC API

// The JSON-RPC API provides blockchain data in standardized JSON format over a WebSocket connection.
// The API uses the `Socket.IO` library and is compatible with JSON-RPC 2.0 standard.

With regard to the WebSocket JSON-RPC API, as briefly described above in Table 2, this enables efficient and seamless integration within the Lisk blockchain network, coupled with offering a more responsive, and efficient alternative to the traditional HTTP based APIs.

> The xref:{url_api_rpc}[RPC-API] reference provides an overview of all available RPC requests. Almost every HTTP endpoint exposes a corresponding RPC endpoint to query over WS/WebSocket. The only exception is the `/export/download` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The xref:{url_api_rpc}[RPC-API] reference provides an overview of all available RPC requests. Almost every HTTP endpoint exposes a corresponding RPC endpoint to query over a WebSocket connection. The only exception is the `/export/download` endpoint.
```

> === The JSON-RPC API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== The WebSocket JSON-RPC API
```
